Adding Magic Motion documentation (#96)
framer/api-docs: pages/motion/animation.mdx

  </ul>
)
```

---

## Automatic (beta)

<Callout>
  <strong>Note:</strong> This feature is currently in beta.
  You can install the latest Framer Motion 2 beta using{" "}
  <code>npm install framer-motion@beta</code>.
</Callout>

<div>

A `motion` component can automatically animate layout and style changes that occur as a result of a re-render by setting `animate` to `true`.

These layout and style changes can be set via CSS applied via `className`, `style`, or inherited from a stylesheet.

</div>

```jsx
<motion.div animate />
```

### Layout animations

> Auto-animating components will animate any changes to their layout. These layout changes can be anything: A change in the component's parent's flexbox, CSS grid, or switching between `position: absolute` and `position: fixed`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auto-animating components will animate any changes to their layout. These layout changes can be anything: a change in the component's parent's flexbox, CSS grid, or switching between `position: absolute` and `position: fixed`.
```

For example, this component is animated by switching `justify-content` between `flex-start` and `flex-end`:

<iframe
  src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/framer-motion-magic-motion-switch-demo-0d68e?fontsize=14&hidenavigation=1&theme=dark"
  style={{
    width: "100%",
    height: "500px",
    border: 0,
    borderRadius: 4,
    overflow: "hidden",
  }}
  title="Framer Motion: Magic Motion switch demo"
  allow="geolocation; microphone; camera; midi; vr; accelerometer; gyroscope; payment; ambient-light-sensor; encrypted-media; usb"
  sandbox="allow-modals allow-forms allow-popups allow-scripts allow-same-origin"
></iframe>

For maximum performance, all layout animations are performed using the `transform` property rather than expensive layout-triggering properties like `width` or `top`.

> 

Reviewer: <img width="628" alt="Screenshot 2020-04-08 at 10 24 07" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9043345/78767902-177d8480-7983-11ea-884c-95b3a2c1dcf4.png">

I think this could use an extra space 🤔

> Animating `width` and `height` with `scaleX` and `scaleY` can sometimes visually distort children. This can be corrected by setting `animate` on those, too:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Animating `width` and `height` with `scaleX` and `scaleY` can sometimes visually distort children. You can correct this by also applying `animate` to those children if they are motion elements:
```

No need to use this suggestion but I think the current paragraph could be improved in two ways: 1, just make it a bit clearer what "those" are (the children experiencing distortion), and 2, I think it's probably worth being specific that they need to be motion elements, even though the example reinforces it. 🤔

```jsx
<motion.div animate>
  <motion.div animate />
</motion.div>
```

<iframe
  src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/framer-motion-magic-motion-accordion-demo-tqzul?fontsize=14&hidenavigation=1&theme=dark"
  style={{
    width: "100%",
    height: "500px",
    border: 0,
    borderRadius: 4,
    overflow: "hidden",
  }}
  title="Framer Motion: Magic Motion accordion demo"
  allow="geolocation; microphone; camera; midi; vr; accelerometer; gyroscope; payment; ambient-light-sensor; encrypted-media; usb"
  sandbox="allow-modals allow-forms allow-popups allow-scripts allow-same-origin"

> ></iframe>

Reviewer: Does this demo do a funny jiggle on click for you? Only in the docs though... works fine elsewhere

[Screen Recording 2020-04-08 at 10.04.06.zip](https://github.com/framer/api-docs/files/4449427/Screen.Recording.2020-04-08.at.10.04.06.zip)

Author: Ah could be an overflow thing

  </ul>
)
```

---

> ## Automatic (beta)

Reviewer 2: I would move subsection to the top of the animation section

Author: I agree but I want to do that when it lands in `latest` rather than beta

These layout and style changes can be set via CSS applied via `className`, `style`, or inherited from a stylesheet.

</div>

```jsx
<motion.div animate />
```

### Layout animations

Auto-animating components will animate any changes to their layout. These layout changes can be anything: a change in the component's parent's flexbox, CSS grid, or switching between `position: absolute` and `position: fixed`.

For example, this component is animated by switching `justify-content` between `flex-start` and `flex-end`:

<iframe
  src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/framer-motion-magic-motion-switch-demo-0d68e?fontsize=14&hidenavigation=1&theme=dark"
  style={{
    width: "100%",
    height: "500px",
    border: 0,
    borderRadius: 4,
    overflow: "hidden",
    marginBottom: 40,
  }}
  title="Framer Motion: Magic Motion switch demo"
  allow="geolocation; microphone; camera; midi; vr; accelerometer; gyroscope; payment; ambient-light-sensor; encrypted-media; usb"
  sandbox="allow-modals allow-forms allow-popups allow-scripts allow-same-origin"
></iframe>

> For maximum performance, all layout animations are performed using the `transform` property rather than expensive layout-triggering properties like `width` or `top`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All layout animations are performed using the `transform` property rather than properties like `width` or `top`. This results in smoother animations, because it does not trigger expensive layouts during the animation.
```

Animating `width` and `height` with `scaleX` and `scaleY` can sometimes visually distort children. You can correct this by also applying `animate` to those children if they are motion elements:

```jsx
<motion.div animate>
  <motion.div animate />
</motion.div>
```

<iframe
  src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/framer-motion-magic-motion-accordion-demo-tqzul?fontsize=14&hidenavigation=1&theme=dark"
  style={{
    width: "100%",
    height: "500px",
    border: 0,
    borderRadius: 4,
    overflow: "hidden",
  }}
  title="Framer Motion: Magic Motion accordion demo"
  allow="geolocation; microphone; camera; midi; vr; accelerometer; gyroscope; payment; ambient-light-sensor; encrypted-media; usb"
  sandbox="allow-modals allow-forms allow-popups allow-scripts allow-same-origin"
></iframe>

### Style animations

The styles that will automatically animate are:

- `backgroundColor`
- `borderRadius` (and individual corners)
- `boxShadow` (currently single shadow only)
- `color`
- `opacity`

> ### Limitations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Current limitations
```

- **Transform:** `animate` **doesn't** currently automatically animate `transform`, because the `transform` prop is currently reserved for performing layout animations.
- **Drag:** The `layoutTransition` prop that `animate={true}` replaces used to have a hacky way to integrate it with `drag` that powered the drag-to-reorder demos. The plan is to properly fix integration with `drag` rather than re-expose this kind of API.

> - **Inline components:** Components that are set to `display: inline` aren't compatible with layout animations as they don't accept the CSS `transform` property. Try `display: inline-block` instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Inline components:** Components that are set to `display: inline` aren't compatible with layout animations as they don't accept the CSS `transform` property. Try using `display: inline-block` instead.
```

> - **SVG:** SVGs aren't currently supported, but they will be soon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **SVG:** SVGs are currently not supported, but they will be soon.
```
